Astro alerts use case (#3335)
astronomer/docs: astro/use-cases/multi-channel-alerting-systems.md

---
title: 'Set up a multi-channel alerting system for your Airflow pipelines on Astro'

> sidebar_label: 'Multi-channel alerting systems'

Author: Good feedback - going to update to "Airflow vs Astro alerts". I think we made it more action-oriented because of the "use case" header, but honestly I think we should update that to "best practices" anyway. Different convo, but this would fit better into that.

2. Deploy your project to your Astro Deployment. See [Deploy code to Astro](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deploy-code).
3. Add a connection to Slack in the Astro Cloud UI. See [Create Airflow connections in the Cloud UI](create-and-link-connections.md). This connection will be used by your SlackNotifier, so make sure the connection ID matches what you used in your DAG code in Step 1.
4. In your Astro Deployment, configure an Astro **DAG failure** alert for your DAG using the communication channel of your choice. See [Set up Astro alerts](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/alerts).
5. Configure an Astro **Absolute time** alert for your DAG based on the amount of time you expect your DAG to complete in. Use the communication channel of your choice. See [Set up Astro alerts](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/alerts).

## Explanation

Using a combination of Astro alerts and Airflow notifications allows your team to implement alerting logic using the best tool for each scenario. You might need different types of alerts that are better suited towards one option or the other, as shown in the example in this use case:

> - **Task-level alerts with custom logic** are recommended if you want be notified of success or failure only for a specific task, or you want to run custom code if a task succeeds or fails. Task-level success or failure alerts or alerts with custom logic are not currently supported with Astro alerts, but they're straightforward to implement in Airflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Task-level alerts with custom logic** are recommended if you want be notified of success or failure only for a specific task, or you want to run custom code if a task succeeds or fails. Task-level success or failure alerts or alerts with custom logic are not currently supported with Astro alerts, but they're straightforward to implement in Airflow.
```

> - DAG-level success or failure alerts can be created using either Airflow notifications or Astro alerts, but on Astro they are easy to configure and don't require any code changes. To implement these alerts with Airflow, you need to update your DAG code and complete additional configuration for your communication channel (for example, setting up an SMTP server for email alerts).

Reviewer: Did these need to be bold also

> - Absolute time alerts are recommended when you need your DAG to complete by a certain time of day. These types of alerts are available only on Astro.

Reviewer: Maybe say explicitly that they are similar to Airflow SLAs but superior

Author: These aren't similar to Airflow SLAs - Airflow (right now, anyway) does not have the concept of an absolute time SLA. Airflow SLAs are more similar to our task duration alert, which we can add a bullet for.

In some cases, whether you set up an alert on Astro or in Airflow will depend on how your DAGs were configured before you moved to Astro. For example, if all of your DAGs already have email-on-failure notifications configured, it will likely be easier for you to configure an SMTP server on Astro and rely on the existing notification than implement a new Astro alert for each DAG. On the other hand, if you are developing new DAGs on Astro, it will likely be easier to implement Astro alerts which require less configuration for the communication channels.

:::info

> Programmatically creating Astro alerts, which may be helpful if you have a large number of DAGs, is coming soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Programmatically creating Astro alerts is coming soon. This will make it easy to configure alerts for a large number of DAGs without  having to create each alert manually.
```

:::

> In other cases, Astro alerts are always the better option. If you need to implement SLAs for your pipelines so you immediately know when a DAG task is taking too long to run, you should use the absolute time or task duration Astro alerts. There are a couple of reasons these are preferable to Airflow SLAs:

Reviewer: Should this explanation be up top?
